Team Registration and Proposal
================
2024-11-07

### Group member \[UNI\]:

<br> Anni Wang \[aw3621\] <br> Yifan Shi \[ys3766\] <br> Qi Cai
\[qc2337\] <br> Xi Peng\[xp2213\]

### The tentative project title:

NYC Necessities Unveiled: The Ultimate Tourist’s Guide to Finding Public
Restrooms

### The motivation for this project:

Finding a public restroom in New York City can be a significant
challenge for both tourists and locals alike. The bustling streets and
dense urban layout often leave visitors scrambling to find accessible
facilities, especially in times of need. Additionally, some restaurants
and businesses restrict bathroom access to customers only or do not
offer public restrooms at all, which adds to the frustration.

### The intended final products:(need to be edited later)

This project aims to provide a comprehensive, user-friendly guide that
maps out public restroom locations across the city. By leveraging open
data sources, this guide will help alleviate the stress of finding a
toilet in NYC, enhancing the overall experience for tourists and
residents. The goal is to ensure that everyone can explore the city with
confidence, knowing that they have reliable information on where to find
necessary amenities, including which facilities are truly available to
the public without any prerequisites.

### The anticipated [data sources](https://data.cityofnewyork.us/City-Government/Public-Restrooms-Operational-/vzrx-zg6z):

The latest public restroom data extracted from the NYC Open Data
website.

### The planned analyses / visualizations / coding challenges:

#### Planned analyses:

Data Cleaning and Preprocessing: Our first step will involve rigorous
data cleaning and preprocessing to ensure accuracy and usability. This
will include handling missing values, verifying the accuracy of the
location data, and standardizing restroom facility attributes (such as
accessibility features and hours of operation) for consistent analysis.

Geospatial Analysis: We plan to perform geospatial analysis to identify
areas within NYC that are underserved by public restroom facilities. By
integrating the restroom data with maps and demographic information, we
can highlight neighborhoods where improvements are needed, potentially
influencing urban planning and accessibility efforts.

Usage Patterns and Predictive Modelling: We aim to analyze patterns of
restroom availability and predict potential high-demand areas. This
could involve temporal analysis to understand peak times and seasons for
restroom usage, helping tourists and locals plan their outings more
effectively.

#### Visualization:

Heatmaps of Restroom Availability: To illustrate restroom density and
accessibility, we will create heatmaps that show how well different
parts of the city are served. This visualization will help identify
“restroom deserts” and can be used for advocacy and planning. Demand
Forecast Graphs: Using predictive models, we will create graphs that
forecast restroom demand across different times and areas, helping to
manage and plan for peak times.

#### Coding challenges:

Creating an intuitive for the interactive maps and other tools poses a
significant challenge.
